Snow falls on the Hakurei Shrine in winter. It had been destroyed by an earthquake before, but now it's back to normal.
One day, something happened to surprise the Hakurei Shrine's shrine maiden, Reimu Hakurei. That was the sudden appearance of a white pillar shooting into the air - a geyser - near the shrine grounds. 
Normally, when something unusual happens, she goes to find out what happened and quickly bring the matter to a close, but this made her happy as much as it surprised her. After all, the geyser would melt the snow and become a hot spring that would ease the fatigue of both humans and youkai from nearby. 
Marisa: " ... isn't it dangerous to get too close to a geyser?" 
Reimu: "It could attract visitors to the shrine, so who cares? If a hot spring comes up then even villagers will come here, mark my words." 
Marisa: "Yeah, for the hot spring." 
However, Reimu's hopeful observations were off the mark.
The geyser spewed forth more than just water for a hot spring. 
One by one a series of grotesque characters appeared. Earth spirits - denizens of the deep underground. 
Disturbed, the two girls wondered what to do about the geyser, so they decided to build a spa. In fact, the earth spirits were quiet and kept to themselves. Most of them were simply ghosts who had finally been relieved of their ties to this world and allowed to pass on. In Gensokyo, where youkai and ghosts ran rampant as a matter of course, the appearance of a few earth spirits didn't seem like such a big deal. 
However, that decision by the shrine maiden bought the youkai's unhappiness.
There was a secret behind the appearance of the earth spirits about which Reimu and Marisa didn't have the slightest inkling of knowledge. 
—— The Scarlet Devil Masion
The magician that lived in the Scarlet Devil Manor, Patchouli Knowledge, sensed danger in the appearance of youkai and earth spirits from underground. In her readings, she'd learned that somewhere slept a power that was uncontrollable by the likes of the youkai from above ground. She also knew that youkai shouldn't easily be able to enter the city that lay in the depths. 
However, there was almost no-one she could consult with regarding this problem. Losing her temper with Reimu and company, she grudgingly decided to consult with the youkai who was said to have been in Gensokyo the longest. 
This old youkai, Yukari Yakumo, wanted the youkai to refrain from interfering in the affairs of the underground world. 
Yukari: "The underground world has different arrangements, so we can't act too overtly." 
Pachouli:　"Well, the humans aren't going to do anything. At this rate we'll lose our initiative; is that what you want?" 
Yukari: "Hm, that's true ... I suppose I have no choice, I can't let you all just do whatever you want again."
Pachouli:　"What do you mean, again ... ? In any case, will you do something? You seem to know something about the underground." 
Yukari: "No, I can't do anything. Only humans can go to the underground. Besides, this might be a trap to draw us in." 
Yukari promised only to send Reimu to investigate, with youkai staying behind to act in a support role. 
-The sealed youkai awoke together with the violent geyser. The memories of the earth began to awaken, and Gensokyo would probably regress into an older period from its history. 
The youkai of the underground were cast into the depths because of their abominable powers. It couldn't be a fortuitous thing for humans or youkai if they were to appear again. 
The snow, slowly shining.
The palace, surrounded by beautiful colors. 
She was there.
Reimu eventually goes underground to stumble upon a tsurube-otoshi who isn't a real threat. After she meet with Yamame Kurodani, a tsuchigumo. She isn't hostile and even invites Reimu to a feast in the underground. Still, Yukari treats her as an enemy resulting in Yamame getting mad. She attacks, but couldn't stand a chance. Reimu is going further, and deeper underground.
Reimu has no idea where she is now, and when a stranger asks her what she wants in the Former Capital Reimu is left behind with questions. The stranger is Parsee Mizuhashi, a bridge princess able to control people's jealousy. Again, Yukari wants Reimu to defeat her but Reimu only wants the hot springs. Being so jealous, Parsee made a reason to attack her. But she failed, and Reimu moves forward.
Upon reaching the Former Capital, an oni shows up and challenges Reimu for a fight. She says Reimu should keep up with her. Reimu wants her to move away already. She stops, and says her name is Yuugi Hoshiguma. Yuugi and Yukari talks together, Yukari blaming her and the other oni not taking care enough of the earth spirits. Reimu interrupts them, and immediately want to go to the so called Palace of the Earth Spirits. But not before Yuugi once again tries to fight with Reimu. Again, Reimu was the stronger one. They proceed.
As they reach the Palace of the Earth Spirits, a cat just wanders by, attacking them. It ran away just as quickly, though. Eventually Reimu meets another youkai, which strangely enough can read her mind. Not so strange though, as she reveals herself as Satori Komeiji, a satori. She is the master of the Palace of the Earth Spirits. Yukari wants Reimu to finish her already, but she just keeps listening and let Satori read her mind. Satori says the geyser was caused by one of her pets. Satori starts fighting eventually, but looses. She will lead Reimu to deeper underground, to the courtyard of the mansion.
Deeper underground, in the hell of blazing fire, the same cat from earlier appears. But this time it turned into Rin Kaenbyou, also known as Orin. She says she listened to Reimu's goal underground, which she better should not do. So they fight, but Reimu is strong enough to beat Orin. Orin gives Reimu a good luck, as the actual culprit, another one of Satori's pet, is even more powerful as that pet had swallowed an actual god. Still, Reimu moves along.
For the last time, Orin tries to stop them in the underground second sun but fails again. So Reimu reaches the other pet. Her name is Utsuho Reiuji, who takes care of the hellfire. She says the geyser can't be stopped due to her ultimate powers. She wants to fight, and after she wins she wants to go to above ground to use her powers. They start fighting, but Reimu ultimately defeats Utsuho. 
The geyser itself didn't stop, but the ghosts and vengeful spirits from the underground had stopped appearing.
The denizens of the underworld seemed surprisingly satisfied with their situation. 
Any ambitions or plots that the above ground youkai had feared had long since vanished, and in general, the only people who tried to come above ground from below were foolish animals.
There was no longer anything to fear from the underground city. Reimu and company were able to go to and fro relatively freely. In return, though, some of the underground youkai also began to appear above ground from time to time. 
Reimu: "Well, I'm not really satisfied that I know what happened." 
Marisa: "The crow was too hot, so the geyser couldn't stop. So the cat sent the evil spirits up here as a sign something was wrong, right?" 
Reimu: "The crow was too hot because she swallowed up some god, right? I know some of the details ... but, didn't someone give her that power to try to fulfill some sort of purpose? I just can't understand what that is." 
Marisa: "Hey, you over there, what do you think?" 
Utsuho: "Unyu?" 
Utsuho and Orin sat in the shrine's tea room, a pair of innocent looks on their faces. The two were quite familiar with the shrine, and were stuffing their faces with eggs boiled in water from the geyser. 
Marisa: "Eat as many of the eggs as you want, there are always more, but why not tell us what happened?"
Utsuho: "Well. I know I've said this before, but I was playing in the former Hell of Blazing Fires, when suddenly a god came down from above ground. It said it was looking for the strongest hell raven in the area, and I said right away that was me. Then it said it would give me power, and I got it." 
Reimu: "But, that's so strange. I just can't understand why a god from above ground would bother doing that. Who would stand to gain anything from making some crow in what used to be hell powerful?" 
Utsuho: "Well, I did! I got power." 
Orin: "The Hell of Blazing Fires didn't even used to be that hot back in the day. It's slowly been getting colder even since the underground was cut off from Hell. It's gotten really dark and lonely ever since Miss Satori sealed it off with the Palace of the Earth Spirits. But, when Okuu turned weird, the fires suddenly roared into life again. So hot, that geyser was uncontrollable."
Reimu: "... I wonder who would benefit from the Hell of Blazing Fire being rekindled? Could you try remembering the god that gave you power again? What did they look like? Did they talk about what they were trying to do?" 
Utsuho: "Uh-uh. I can't remember much more." 
Orin: "You birdbrain. It's no use, even Miss Satori couldn't see anything with her third eye. It's probably fallen out of your heart already." 
Marisa: "Well, she does have a bird's brain." 
Utsuho: "I'm pretty sure they said they came down from a mountain ... both of them." 
Reimu: "Both of them? Hey, that's the first time you've said that, and that's pretty important." 
Orin: "Anyway, let's get in the bath already. 
Marisa: "You're a cat, but you like taking baths?" 
Reimu and Marisa had their suspicions.
It was probably those two gods from on top of the mountain. 
They tried asking the crow more, but she had nothing left to say, so they thought they'd just have to go see for themselves. The top of a mountain is no place to be in winter, but compared to the fires of the underground it wasn't so bad. 
Why did they give the crow that power, and what would happen now? 

Kanako Yasaka and Suwako Moriya.
They are the gods that recently moved their shrine to the top of the Youkai Mountain. 
They are the start of this story. 
The plan by this name has safely concluded its first phase and is on its way towards practical implementation. 
The plan involved using the now-dormant Hell of Blazing Fires as a super-high temperature furnace in an attempt to tame a power that it is said the outside world won't attain for hundreds of years: nuclear fusion energy. 
The first step was to find an exemplary hell raven.
Then, to bestow upon it the personification of the sun, Yatagarasu.
Then, to rekindle the flames of the Hell of Blazing Fires.
Then, to tame the crow. 
The geyser was proof of the plan's success. 
Unlike fission energy, fusion reactions are less likely to go out of control. In addition, it doesn't create such lethal waste. So, because it is very safe and produces massive amounts of energy, it is an almost dream-like energy production method. 
Kanako seems to treat this as just one part of the shrine's operations. 
Because they didn't feel the plan was dangerous, the above-ground youkai did nothing to stop it even once they found out the truth. 
However, Reimu, who was made to go underground,
confronted them and said angrily,
Reimu: "Next time, tell everyone about it before you start!" 


One early morning, a large human-shaped object appeared in the mountains, spewing steam, before disappearing into the mountain fog. Sanae Kochiya, Cirno, and Hong Meiling all saw the mysterious thing. Sanae thought it might be a giant robot; Cirno was convinced it was a daidarabotchi; Meiling believed it was the Taisui Xingjun. Each of them set out to confront the mysterious thing. 
Cirno wonders if the giant thing is the legendary giant youkai, daidarabotchi. While Cirno is talking to herself, Sanae Kochiya lands before her, just as the giant thing disappears. Sanae was also wondering about it, believing it to be a robot. She asks Cirno about it. Cirno accidentally mentions the daidarabotchi, but tries to deny having seen anything. Her response makes Sanae suspicious. Sanae defeats Cirno in a match and asks for directions to the giant thing. Cirno states she saw it near the Scarlet Devil Mansion.
At the Scarlet Devil Mansion, Hong Meiling is talking to herself about the giant thing, thinking it was Taisui Xingjun. Sanae drops by, surprising Meiling. Sanae asks for directions to the giant thing. Meiling says that it headed towards the mountain. Sanae then wonders if she passed it at some point. Sanae tries to leave but Meiling stops her because this is the estate grounds of the devil where people are not allowed to come and go as they please. After their match, a lukewarm mist appears at the Scarlet Devil Mansion and Sanae spots the giant robot at the base of the mountain.
The reappearing human-like giant seems to be rampaging near the Geyser Underground Center at the base of the mountain. Just as she thought that both it and the mist disappear again. Sanae thought that the grounds under the geyser were strange, so she descended underground to where the sun resides. Sanae knows that the Geyser Underground Center was created for Kanako Yasaka's plans. It is also the site for the mountain’s technological breakthroughs. Connecting the dots, Sanae concluded that this must be the giant robot's docking bay.
Reimu Hakurei somehow falls inside the Geyser Underground Center. It is implied that Sanae had forgotten to close the cover hatch, leaving the ground above unsupported. When Reimu was walking by, the ground suddenly crumbled, causing her to fall. After recovering from her fall, Reimu asks Sanae where are they. Sanae explains this is the Geyser Underground Center used for researching nuclear fusion. Reimu suspects she is up to no good again and then they get into a fight. Sanae reaffirms that she isn't involved in anything bad. Sanae further explains that the Geyser Underground Center is where the kappa come to research and build. Still feeling the pain from her fall, Reimu decides to believe Sanae, but she warns her that if anything weird happens then it is her fault.
Sanae arrives at the nuclear reactor core, commenting on its extreme heat and how staying too long could be dangerous. The reactor operations had to be halted because Sanae's presence was contaminating the nuclear reactor core. Utsuho Reiuji was sent in to eradicate the "foreign substance" immediately and attacks Sanae. After a spell card, Sanae tells Utsuho that she's a shrine maiden of Kanako but Utsuho doesn't remember who Kanako is. Sanae then tries to explain that she's a servant of higher power than Utsuho herself. Utsuho is confused and explains the reason she came to the nuclear reactor core is because of the notification that a foreign substance had contaminated the reactor core. They continue their fight. Eventually, Utsuho forgets what they were doing. Sanae takes advantage of this to tell Utsuho that she was listening to her orders and helping her with the investigation of the reactor. Utsuho asks what she should be doing then Sanae asks her whether or not a gigantic thing has been hiding there. Utsuho asks what it is. Sanae answers that it's humanoid and about 100 meters. Utsuho states she has not seen such a thing.
Sanae was thinking to herself in the nuclear reactor when Suwako Moriya jumps down inside and accidentally lands on Sanae. Sanae explains that she arrived here in pursuit of a giant shadow which she believes to be a giant robot in Gensokyo. Suwako states she came here to restart Hisoutensoku. She makes the connection that the giant robot Sanae saw is probably Hisoutensoku. Sanae learns that Suwako had Hisoutensoku built without Kanako’s knowledge and points out that Suwako has been doing a lot of weird things without telling anyone. She reminds Suwako about how keeping the nuclear fusion reactor a secret in the past made everyone angry. She then decides Suwako has gone too far with selfish deeds and challenges her to a battle. Suwako obliges, and the two engage in a fierce battle. 
Cirno speculates she has seen a daidarabotchi. She gets ready to leave when Sanae Kochiya asks her if she has seen a giant human-shaped object. Cirno denies seeing a daidarabotchi, which causes Sanae to be suspicious and fight Cirno. Later, Cirno passes by the Scarlet Devil Mansion when she overhears Hong Meiling mumbling about the Taisui Xingjun. Cirno becomes interested in finding the Taisui Xingjun, but focuses back on the daidarabotchi after beating Meiling.
At the entrance of the Underground Geyser Center, Cirno meets Marisa Kirisame who tells her that the daidarabotchi is inside the Underground Geyser Center, but that was a complete lie. Once inside after beating Marisa, Cirno is intercepted by Utsuho Reiuji. Utsuho attempts to eradicate the foreign substance, but Cirno manages to escape being incinerated to death. After escaping, Cirno runs into Marisa, who tells her about a giant youkai in the Forest of Magic.
Once Cirno gets to the forest, she runs into Alice Margatroid. When Cirno tells her about a daidarabotchi, Alice realizes that Cirno is talking about her Goliath Doll, and lets Cirno fight with it. 
Hong Meiling rushes into the library of the Scarlet Devil Mansion to talk to Patchouli Knowledge about seeing Taisui Xingjun and advises Patchouli to prepare for an earthquake. Patchouli however tells Meiling to go back to her post and not interrupt Patchouli's research. After a short battle with Patchouli, Meiling then decides to defend the Scarlet Devil Mansion from the Taisui Xingjun and his minions on her own.
Later, Alice Margatroid appears and asks Meiling to escort her to the library. However, Meiling claims that she is actually a fake sent by the Taisui Xingjun, and "Alice" is impressed that Meiling saw through her ruse. Meiling then defeats "Alice" and prepares for the next invader. Afterwards, Marisa Kirisame comes by hoping to visit the library again. Marisa tries to get past Meiling, but Meiling ousts her as a fake and defeats her. Reimu Hakurei then arrives at the Scarlet Devil Mansion to exterminate youkai. Meiling recognizes Reimu as yet another agent of Taisui Xingjun and proceeds to defeat the "Reimu".
After she is defeated, "Reimu" decides to show Meiling her true form, a Giant Catfish. The catfish tells Meiling it has finally been revived, and reveals it sent assassins to weaken Meiling before its revival. Meiling decides to fight the catfish. After a harsh battle, it was defeated. 
After her fight with the Giant Catfish, Meiling goes on to fight the Taisui Xingjun. However, it's revealed that Hong Meiling's scenario after her fight against Patchouli Knowledge was all a dream. She passed out at the gates of the Scarlet Devil Mansion where Sakuya Izayoi found her and put her in the library, with Sakuya trying to help her and Patchouli disagreeing because she's a youkai who'll heal anyway. Hearing Meiling's sleep talk, they talk about the action manga they found outside the gate, and how Meiling's dreaming about it. The topic then goes on to Hisoutensoku and how Sakuya was interested in seeing it. Patchouli agrees but also noting something important to drop off (what that "something" was is never revealed). Meiling ends up waking up embarrassed over how she wound up reading a manga instead of guarding the mansion, but she was concerned about Taisui as she wasn't able to beat it in her dream and didn't know what it looked like. It goes on to the question if all the youkai were able to defeat such a being, with Meiling vowing to be on the front lines. 
Reimu Hakurei and Marisa Kirisame are at the Hakurei Shrine talking about the kappa's festival mentioned in the newspaper as they notice the bit about Hisoutensoku which catches their interest. The scene then switches to the Moriya Shrine where Sanae Kochiya, Suwako Moriya and Kanako Yasaka talk about what makes the robot work and worry of an 'artificial god'. The conversation goes on to some miscellaneous projects such as giant robots in general. Hisoutensoku was a successful robot attraction and even Marisa and Reimu enjoyed it.
Cirno's telling Reimu about the giant youkai, which was the Goliath Doll, she fought and Reimu brings up Hisoutensoku, which Cirno disproves, adding since it's so common it's boring. She goes on to tell her tale but ends up forgetting the exact details of her encounter with Alice Margatroid and the doll, instead just saying she encountered a youkai in the Forest of Magic. This imperfect recollection ended up being mutated into a ghost story called the "Legend of the Giant Midsummer Youkai." Alice hears this tale later and she doesn't recognize her part in it, so she decides to focus on making her doll stronger, enlarging magic in it as to one day it'll fight the youkai that doesn't exist. 

Utsuho Reiuji or Okuu is one of Satori's pets, a Hell Raven who has lived in the underground world since before it was separated from Hell. Her job is to regulate the flames of the Hell of Blazing Fires. Before the events of Subterranean Animism, she was told by a voice (presumably Kanako's) that she could swallow the god, Yatagarasu, that was hidden in the flames to gain a power that would fulfill the wishes of both the worlds below and above the surface. This power was nuclear fusion. Utsuho misunderstood what the voice had told her, and decided that, using these powers, she would take over Gensokyo. Her friend, Orin, became worried about Utsuho, and drove evil spirits to the surface to cause an incident among the strong youkai above ground, in hope that they would come down to do something about it and, when they got there, defeat Utsuho and bring her back to her former self. What came, however, was not a strong youkai, but a strong human, with a strong youkai as backup. 
During the Undefined Fantastic Object incident, it is revealed that the geyser Utsuho created with her newfound powers wound up blowing Byakuren's Palanquin Ship out from the underground and into the sky, thus starting the plot of that game. 
Utsuho has long raven-dark brown hair. Wears a white short-sleeved shirt with a red "eye" in the center, a short green skirt, and a green hair-ribbon. On her right arm, she wears a device known as the "Third Leg", which appears to regulate the power of the devices on her legs (aka a control rod, though it has been referenced as an arm cannon by many fans and is used as one in Hisoutensoku). She wears a cape that's white on the outside and a starry pattern on the inside; the cape is kept aloft by her black wings. Her right foot is encased in congealed matter, representing the "elephant's foot" of Chernobyl, her Leg of Fission. Her left foot is being orbited by atoms, her Leg of Fusion.

It is the year 21XX. While trying to find a fossil record, Dr. Cain, a human scientist, has uncovered a capsule with a robot from the past: Mega Man X. The capsule contained a warning message from Dr. Light, his creator: 
"WARNING:
"X" is the first of a new generation of robots which contain an innovative new feature - the ability to think, feel and make their own decisions. However this ability could be very dangerous. If "X" were to break the first rule of robotics, "A robot must never harm a human being", the results would be disastrous and i fear that no force on earth could stop him.
Approximately 30 years will be required before we can safely confirm his reliability. Unfortunately i will not live to see that day, nor do i have anyone to carry on my work. Therefore, i have decided to seal him in this capsule, which will test his internal systems until his reliability has been confirmed. Please do not disturb the capsule until that time.
"X" possesses great risks as well as great possibilities. I can only hope for the best."
X's design interested Cain, and he analyzed Dr. Light's notes. Months later, Cain was able to create robots similar to X, called Reploids, and they began to be mass-produced around the world. For unknown reasons, some Reploids began to act strange and attacked humans, being labeled Mavericks. To counter any possible threat, the Maverick Hunters were formed. Sigma, an advanced Reploid, was assigned to be their leader. X also became a member of the Maverick Hunters. Time passes and the Maverick Hunters are able to keep peace, but one day Sigma himself became a Maverick, being joined by other Maverick Hunters to start a war against humanity. Although X was by nature a pacifist, he had to do something, so he joined the new leader of the Maverick Hunters, Zero, to stop the ambitions of Sigma and the Mavericks.
X joined the fight on the highway, where he was defeated by a powerful Maverick, Vile, in a Ride Armor. Fortunately X was saved by Zero, who forced Vile to flee before ordering X to continue fighting Sigma's rebellion while he performed reconnaissance. X then fought all eight Mavericks, defeating them and growing stronger along the way.
Once they were all defeated, Zero informed X that he had located Sigma's hideout and that they were going to storm it. Upon infiltrating the levitating island fortress, the pair were confronted by Vile once more. Zero planned to take on Vile alone, but was caught in a trap, allowing Vile to defeat X as well. However, Zero broke out of his cage and sacrificed himself to destroy Vile's Ride Armor, levelling the playing field and allowing X to make a comeback to victory. X approached Zero's body, listening to his final words before he passed away.
X continued through Sigma's hideout until he finally confronted the Maverick leader himself. He destroyed his guard dog Velguarder before fighting him personally, destroying both of his powerful battle bodies and putting an end to his rebellion. X then retreated to a nearby cliffside to watch the fall of Sigma's flying fortress, pondering the nature of peace and war. 

It had been six months since the destruction of Sigma and his Maverick rebellion, but the Mavericks weren't completely eliminated in the prior conflict, and their remnants still sought chaos. A large group of Mavericks was located in an abandoned production factory, and the Maverick Hunters were mobilized, under X's command, to shut them down. 
However, after X stopped the last Mavericks, a brand new Maverick uprising began, this time led by a trio identifying themselves as the X-Hunters: Serges, Agile, and Violen. As X fought the eight Mavericks, the X-Hunters revealed that they had reconstructed Zero's body into three pieces; however, they required his control chip in order to activate him, which was in the possession of Dr. Cain. The X-Hunters then challenged X to a series of duels over Zero's parts to see who would get to resurrect him.
X gathered the three parts of Zero by the time he infiltrated the X-Hunters' base in the Arctic. There he destroyed Violen, Serges, and finally Agile, the last of whom revealed that they had resurrected Sigma as well. After going deeper into the base, X heard Sigma's voice challenging him to face him.
X pursued Sigma to the Central Computer, finally confronting him again. Zero appeared reconstructed by Dr. Cain to aid X. Sigma then fled deeper into the base, with Zero telling X to chase Sigma while he destroyed the Central Computer. X destroyed Sigma's body in battle, revealing his true form as the Sigma Virus for the first time, but overcame it as well. The Sigma Virus dissipated, the Central Computer detonated, and X and Zero reunited by the sea. Peace was restored - but for how long? 

Peace has returned to the world thanks to the efforts of the Maverick Hunters. But one day, the Mother Computer of "Hunter Base", the Maverick Hunters' headquarters, has been hacked by an unknown source. All of its data was overwritten in an instant, and the resulting fake data has sent the whole world spiraling into chaos. The command center sends X out, with the technician Reploid Middy giving him assistance from the base, to face the as-yet unidentified enemy, who has resurrected Maverick data from the past. 
After waking up in the Highway and fighting through it, X is brought back into reality by Zero, who explains the situation with the Mother Computer. X enters the Mother Computer and begins fighting the Maverick data. After defeating one of them, Geemel and Techno are seen in the Shadow Hunter base discussing X's progress. Zain volunteers to go hunt X down and stop him before he gets too far; X can then battle Zain in a secret room in Flame Stag's Volcanic Zone Stage, which results in him running away. 
Once X has defeated all four of the Mavericks, the Mother Computer's core is made accessible. On his way there, X fights Zain again, this time destroying him completely, much to the chagrin of Geemel. Once he actually enters the core he finds Sigma, the true mastermind of the operation, and defeats him. This reveals the location of Geemel and Techno to the Maverick Hunters; in response to this, Geemel flees, abandoning Techno.
X heads to the base and confronts Techno alone, destroying his hacking terminal - however, this kills Techno in the process. Middy then rushes in to find Techno, revealing that he is his brother and that they share the CPU. This means that Middy also passes away, angering X. The Hunter then continues on, finding Sigma again and finishing him off to gain redemption. 
Despite having saved the Mother Computer, X soon finds himself again sent to the Highway. When he wakes up, Zero explains to that someone has hacked it yet again, and now there are more data reconstructions of Mavericks guarding the core. X enters the Mother Computer once more.
Upon defeating two Mavericks, it is revealed that Geemel has returned and is attempting to get revenge on X. The Hunter defeats the remaining Mavericks and makes his way to the core. This time he is ambushed by Geemel, who attacks him but is destroyed.Once he enters the core, X learns that Sigma is back again, and defeats him both in the core and at the ruins of the Shadow Hunters' base. 

Sigma's rebellion had finally been crushed, and all Mavericks were neutralized thanks to the efforts of a Reploid scientist named Dr. Doppler. Using his advanced Neuro Computer, Doppler was able to create a "vaccine" to suppress any abnormal behavior in the Reploids and prevent them from going berserk. This brought about an era of peace. Many advanced Reploids and reformed Mavericks gathered near their new mentor and founded "Dopple Town" in his honor, a perfect utopian community. With Dr. Doppler guiding them, the world seemed ready to enter a new golden age.
A few months later, the Mavericks who were supposed to have been neutralized by Dr. Doppler's vaccine began to riot. All the Maverick Hunters' intelligence indicated that Dr. Doppler was the mastermind behind the chaos, and soon he declared war on the world and put Dopple Town under martial law. The call went out to X and Zero to infiltrate Dopple Town, destroy the rioting Mavericks, and bring Dr. Doppler to justice. 
A few hours later, however, an emergency contact was made by Hunter Base, revealing they were under direct attack from Doppler's forces. X and Zero returned to the headquarters to immediately to stop them, where X was betrayed and kidnapped by their former ally Mac. Fortunately, Zero was able to destroy Mac and free X, and together they stopped the siege on Hunter Base.
With Hunter Base secured, X and Zero returned to Dopple Town to carry out the mission. While they fought the eight Mavericks, Dr. Doppler sent his Nightmare Police to capture X dead or alive, and a mysterious Maverick laid teleporter traps in an attempt to get his revenge. X was able to defeat the Nightmare Police, and also escape the ambush planned by the resurrected Vile. 
After analyzing the memory chips of the defeated eight Mavericks, Dr. Cain discovered that Dr. Doppler was collecting the specs from the latest models of Reploids to create a powerful new battle body for someone. Dr. Cain also pinpointed the location of Dr. Doppler's Laboratory, which was hidden underground at Point D. X and Zero infiltrated the lab to put an end to the chaos.
When X confronted and defeated Dr. Doppler, he found out that the mad scientist was not fully responsible for the revolt - Sigma was. Doppler had been infected by the Sigma Virus and was manipulated into building the new body for Sigma against his will. Fortunately, X was able to find Sigma before he could reveal himself and destroyed his battle body. In a last ditch attempt to survive, Sigma entered his viral form, chasing X and cornering him in an attempt to possess his body. 
Dr. Doppler completed a true anti-virus, Zero obtained the anti-virus and used it with his Z-Saber, dropping down and dealing a fatal blow to Sigma, the Sigma Virus fades away while X and Zero rendezvous outside the ruins of Doppler's Laboratory. 

All over the world, Reploids were having their programs suddenly erased, leaving their bodies hollow shells. This phenomenon was named "Erasure". One day, all readings of Reploids on "Laguz Island" in the Southern Ocean unexpectedly vanish. The Maverick Hunters X and Zero receive orders to investigate the island in order to determine what is going on and who is behind the mysterious Erasure. During the mission, they are supported by an inexperienced Navigator named Iris. 
Upon reaching Laguz Island, X and Zero determined that it is inhabited by hostile Mavericks and Mechaniloids. They defeat the vicious Skullhead, attracting the attention of a knight-like Reploid calling himself Gareth. He is intrigued by their strength, but refuses to acknowledge them unless they can defeat the eight "guardians" of Laguz Island. With no other leads, X and Zero decide to split up to take care of the guardians while conducting their investigation. Iris offers to create power-up parts from materials they gather along the way.
X and Zero discover that the "guardians" are in fact past Mavericks resurrected from Sigma and Dr. Doppler's armies. While they fight across the island, Gareth meets with a witch-like Reploid called Berkana who is pleased with the Hunters' progress. Iris also discovers that Gareth is one of the Soul Erasers behind the Erasure, and that they have been using the DNA Souls to power themselves up.
Once the Maverick Hunters destroy all eight guardians, Gareth contacts them again to invite them to the Laguz Research Laboratory for a final showdown. After infiltrating the fortress, Berkana and Gareth personally challenge the Hunters, forcing them to split up. X pursues Berkana while Zero pursues Gareth, defeating both of them. This puts an end to the Erasure and returns the DNA Souls to the comatose Reploid victims around the world.
It turns out Sigma is the one who put Berkana up to the Erasure. He thanks the Hunters for defeating her before challenging them himself. However, he is defeated once again.

Two large Reploid armies currently exist to counter the Mavericks: The Maverick Hunters and the Repliforce. The two organizations cooperated on several occasions, and during this time Zero befriended Colonel and Iris of Repliforce. 
But one day, the aerial city Sky Lagoon was attacked by Mavericks, who sabotaged its power generator, causing it to fall to the city below, killing thousands. As Repliforce was present in the area, they were put under suspicion and Colonel was asked that Repliforce surrender for questioning. Having great pride, Colonel refuses and leaves with his sister. Their leader, General, is indignant of the suspicion and starts a coup d'état to build a Reploid-only nation. Although General says they only want to live in peace, not wanting harm for the humans, the entire Repliforce is considered Mavericks, and the Maverick Hunters are sent to stop them, starting the Great Repliforce War. Little do they realize that behind the scenes, a mysterious cloaked figure pitted them against each other, in a bid to wipe out both sides. 
During the war, Iris assists Zero while X is assisted by the rookie Double. After defeating several members of Repliforce, the Hunters fight Colonel and defeat him. Repliforce travels into space to begin their nation, and the Hunters chase after their satellite/space station. 
Iris is angered by her brother's death and fights him. The battle leaves her mortally wounded and she dies in Zero's arms. X discovers that Double was a spy of the cloaked figure and the two fight, resulting in Double's death; but not before insulting X for his naivety. The Hunters finally reach General and a battle ensues that leaves him severely wounded. Suddenly, the weapon in the station prepares to destroy Earth, and the cloaked figure is revealed to be Sigma. Sigma is destroyed by the Hunters, but the weapon can't be stopped by them. General sacrifices himself to stop the weapon, and the station explodes.
Upon leaving the battlefield, X and Zero contemplate the events and those who perpetrated the Great Repliforce War. Riding in escape ships to headquarters, X and Zero can only come to the same question: Deep down, will all Reploids eventually go Maverick on their own, by their own decision, one day, even themselves? 

Several months after the Repliforce war, Earth is at a peaceful time. The repair of the space colonies damaged during the war was almost complete, the only space colony remaining to be the giant colony Eurasia located in a Lagrangian point. As it was quite old, it was planned to receive an extensive renovation. However, one day someone had occupied Eurasia and took control of it, scattering a virus in the colony and using its artificial gravity systems to set it on a collision course towards Earth. Within 16 hours, Eurasia will crash and cause great destruction, in the worst case extinguishing all life from the planet. The Maverick Hunters plan on using the large particle cannon Enigma to destroy Eurasia before it happens. The Enigma cannon is somewhat old and needs to be upgraded. Signas, the Hunters' new commander, orders Mega Man X and his comrade Zero, as they race against time to collect the four parts necessary to upgrade the Enigma and stop Eurasia before it's too late. To make things worse, Sigma scattered the Sigma Virus all over the world and the parts needed are being protected by Mavericks. 
Once X and Zero have recovered the initial four items required to use the Enigma, it is fired and it fails, only destroying part of it.
Eurasia falls into Earth and the colony virus merges with the Sigma Virus, creating a new virus in the location of the collision in the point 11F5646. Alia detected the strange energy of the virus and dubbed it the Zero Virus due to its similarities with Zero. The Hunters go into Eurasia's remains to verify the virus. Zero is there too, but he became a Maverick, X still feels as if he can save Zero, so X fights through the area to get to Zero and help him. 
X confronts the "true" Zero, whose power had grown tremendously. Both X and Zero fight in a room where Dr. Wily's mark is displayed prominently in the background, and just as the fight is ending, they both use Soul Body on the oposing one to weaken them, this also seemed to cure Zero from the maverick virus. They lie exhausted on the ground. Sigma appears out of nowhere intending to finish X off. Zero jumps in front of X's prone body and protects him from Sigma, claiming to know everything Sigma is trying to do. Sigma concedes defeat and vanishes for the moment, saying he will be waiting. The Hunters then prepare for the final battle against Sigma. 
Once in the final chamber, Sigma reveals that his entire plan hinged on awakening Zero from his "false self" and giving him his true power by infecting him with a massive amount of the Sigma Virus, scattering it around the Earth. But, as the amount was not enough to awaken him, he used the colony as a virus and let it land on the Earth. The Hunters fight Sigma, who loses and reveals his final body; a huge, unfinished battle body. Sigma tells X of an old man he met, with a seemingly undying hatred for X. Sigma tells Zero of the same man, who supposedly knows enough about Zero to be his own father, referencing Dr. Wily. X and Zero fight Sigma's last body and defeat him, but Sigma has one last trick up his sleeve; he self-destructs, attempting to take both of them with him.
After the explosion, the extent of the damage is shown; Zero's body lies shattered on the ground, his lower torso and left arm apparently destroyed in the blast. X kneels down to pick up Zero's broken body and pleads with him not to die, not noticing Sigma's severed head charging a blast behind him. Sigma fires an energy blast at X, catching both him and Zero in the chest and creating a hole there. This blast seemingly jars Zero from death, as he smiles and blasts Sigma's head with his Z-Buster, finishing him for good. He lies on the ground and calls for X, noting that his friend's optimism at the thought of Zero living is what lead to his death. 
Zero reflects on his life as a vision of him in his original body fighting the original Sigma comes up. He assumes these visions are due to his power source running out and his memory unit malfunctioning as another vision, this time of a blurred Dr. Wily, comes into view. The focus shifts from the doctor to an incomplete Zero lying on a table, where Zero notes that the old man was creating a robot destroyer. A red and faded image of Iris then flashes through his mind, while Zero apologizes to her. He then makes a remark that it would be better for him to die, so as to restore the peace. Zero then tells X goodbye and passes away. 
X is missing his lower torso and both arms after Sigma's explosion. A mysterious glowing figure, Dr. Light, appears and tells X to rest and relax. the glowing hologram tells X to hold on for just a little longer and to forget all of his painful memories. X is then repaired and returns to the Maverick Hunters.
One week later, X and two other Maverick Hunters are moving some things. One of the Hunters asks X if he remembers anything about what had happened the previous week, with X firmly stating that he doesn't remember anything about the battle. The other Hunter remarks that X is now a Special-A rank Hunter, the same as Zero, and explains to X that he and Zero worked together to defeat Sigma. X comments that he didn't forget Sigma's name; he remembers it clearly, and yet he has no memory of Zero. He assumes that whoever repaired him may have accidentally deleted the data, Dr. Light did this to ease the pain of fighting Zero and leading to his death. One of the Hunters says that it's a miracle X came out of the battle at all. Signas remarks that it's indeed a miracle X came back and without so much as a scratch. Douglas mentions that it's still difficult to repair X and Zero's bodies since their internal workings are still a mystery. Alia says that she's not interested in miracles, and doubts most Reploids believe in them either. Douglas asks about X's memories of Zero, and Signas admits that even he doesn't know how it happened, be it an accident or purposeful. Alia mentions that there's a protection in X's systems now; X's body won't even accept data related to Zero, and even she couldn't program a protection that complicated. X says that they need to work harder to achieve peace and that his secret dream is to build Elysium, a paradise for both humans and Reploids.

Zero survives and reapeares months later, then he is sealed to be analyzed. Hundreds of years later, Ciel and her companions go after the legendary Reploid Zero to help them in their fight against Neo Arcadia, and are followed by Neo Arcadian forces. They come across the ruins of an ancient laboratory where Zero is sealed up, having been in stasis for a century. The world that Zero is brought into is one drastically different to the one from a century earlier. Reploids are living under constant oppression at the hands of a maniacal ruler who can call them "Maverick" at a whim, and the ruler is none other them his former partner, X. Zero fights X's forces, led by the Four Guardians - Fefnir, Harpuia, Leviathan, and Phantom, and then learns the truth from Ciel: The current ruler is not the original X, but rather is a "copy". Copy X was created when the real X went missing some time ago. Zero goes to confront and defeat Copy X and, upon doing so, is almost destroyed by the large explosion that results. Then, the original X appears in the form of a Cyber-elf and tells Zero that he must continue fighting.

One after Zero defeated Copy X, he has been wandering around in the desert in disrepair all that time, fighting off wave after wave of Pantheons. In Neo Arcadia, the remaining three Guardians have assumed control in the place of Copy X, unbeknownst to the humans who had revered Copy X as a savior. Ciel tries to solve the Energy Crisis that seems to have started much of the problems, leaving command of the Resistance to a Reploid named Elpizo. However, Elpizo believes her efforts to be futile and makes an assault on Neo Arcadia from which he is the only returning survivor.
After that, Elpizo returns and believes that the only thing that will stop the madness is the Dark Elf, the very thing that started the Elf Wars in the first place. Using some of its unsealed power, Elpizo breaks into the temple at Yggdrasil, destroys the body of the original X, unsealing the Dark Elf. However, Zero comes to the rescue, stopping Elpizo from unleashing the Dark Elf's power on the world and defeats him once and for all. Elpizo apologizes for everything that he's done and the Dark Elf turns him into a Cyber-elf (saving him). Elpizo then tells Zero that the Dark Elf isn't evil and then he leaves. X appears (in his Cyber-elf form) and tells Zero about the true nature of the Dark Elf, who was created to be a savior for Reploids and humans during the Maverick Wars but was manipulated by a man named Dr. Weil. After this, the Dark Elf leaves and a voice calls for Omega to come into action. 

During the two months after Elpizo's defeat, an unofficial truce was made between the Resistance and Neo Arcadia. Ciel has solved the energy crisis, developing what she called the Ciel System, and entered in contact with Neo Arcadia to send it to them. Meanwhile, a spaceship crashes and emits energy similar to that of the Dark Elf which prompts Zero to go and investigate. At the spaceship, Zero encounters a huge Reploid named Omega that not even Fefnir and Leviathan can take down. While Zero halts his investigation to deal with Omega, a new Copy X assumes command of Neo Arcadia and Dr. Weil introduces himself (he seems to be back from his exile), Copy X admitting him in as his advisor. Copy X and Weil challenge Zero and the Resistance as to which group will capture the Dark Elf first, thus ending the truce.
Weil and Copy X then launch a missile at a densely-populated area that humans live in so Omega can capture the Dark Elf. Zero then had to counter a severe offensive against the resistance after Ciel refused to give her Ciel System to Neo Arcadia. Zero goes to battle and defeat Copy X once more, but Dr. Weil betrays Copy X and detonates a bomb held within his body that goes off when he tries to access his second form. Weil assumes control of Neo Arcadia and uses Omega and the Dark Elf to seize control of the Reploids.
Zero manages to defeat Omega's Dark Elf-enhanced form, defeating him twice, but out of Omega's remains emerges a Reploid that looks exactly like Zero. Weil then informs Zero that he is merely a copy and that Omega occupies his true, original form, which Zero barely defeats. Then, before Omega is rejoined with the Dark Elf, the Guardians come and do further damage to him. X reappears and tells Zero that what Weil says is true: they battled Omega in the past and sealed him long ago.X explains that the defeated Omega is using Zero's original body,but the copy of Zero's body still has the true heart of Zero. Zero decides that he must finish Omega off, regardless of whether or not he occupies his original body. Omega explodes, knocking Zero "unconscious," and he sees visions of X. X tells him that he is out of energy and can no longer remain in the human world. X is confident that Zero will carry on the battle to protect peace and fades away. X is then believed to have "retired into cyberspace." The Guardians also die in the explosion. The Dark Elf brings Zero's unconscious body back to the Resistance HQ and, with Weil's curse broken, the Dark Elf becomes the Mother Elf once again and flies away. 

Not long after Zero's battle with Omega, humans begin to leave Neo Arcadia, which is under the dictatorship of Dr. Weil. Humans who oppose Weil's rule are labeled as Mavericks and quickly dealt with, so a Caravan departs under the guidance of a journalist named Neige. The caravan is attacked by Variants and Ciel and the Resistance come across them along with Zero. The caravan explains that they are heading to Area Zero, the last known habitable area outside of Neo Arcadia, which is also the remains of Eurasia. Soon after this, Zero learns of a plot from Craft, Weil's second-in-command, to destroy Area Zero. Known as Operation Ragnarok, the plan is enacted by a new wave of mechaniloid warriors known as the Einherjar to destroy all habitable areas, especially Area Zero, and force humans to come back and live under his rule. Thus, Zero sets out to defeat the Einherjar and halt their assigned tasks to devastate last haven against Weil.
In reality, the Einherjar attacks were only a distraction to occupy Zero so Weil can finish his most powerful weapon, the space station Ragnarok, which can easily destroy Area Zero with its laser. And then Craft rebels against Weil and instead fires the cannon upon Neo Arcadia. Zero puts an end to Craft and the Resistance is dispatched to rescue the survivors. Weil then teleports directly into the satellite to manually crash it into Area Zero, but Zero teleports back in and makes his way to Weil.
Weil tells Zero that he is indeed human, although Zero doesn't understand how he could have lived for well over a century. Weil reveals that over a century ago the humans who exiled him gave him a regenerative suit so that he would live through his exile and not die or get sick. Therefore, he tells Zero that he will not be able to destroy him. Moreover, should he ever manage to kill or even just harm him he will be considered a "Maverick." In the end, Zero decides that he doesn't care about justice or being called a Maverick, he only cares about protecting those he cares about. Weil fuses with the Ragnarok core, then with the entire Ragnarok itself, to battle Zero. However, Zero destroys Weil and Ragnarok, destroying the satellite before it reaches the atmosphere. 
On Earth, Ciel, the Resistance, and the survivors see the explosion and realize that Zero did not escape. Ciel promises to make the world a peaceful place for humans and Reploids but deep inside she believes that Zero is still alive somewhere. A crater in a desert zone shows the charred remains of Ragnarok with Zero's broken helmet inside. 

In the near future, several people called "adepts" have developed "septimal powers". These powers enable superhuman feats including flight, the use of powerful energy weapons, and manipulation of the elements like fire, water, and electricity. The world is at peace thanks to the efforts of a world-spanning corporation known as the Sumeragi Group. However, the Sumeragi Group is, in reality, controlling and experimenting on adepts. Gunvolt, one of the most powerful adepts, has the ability to create electrical fields and works for an organization known as QUILL, which is seeking to reveal and put a stop to Sumeragi's ulterior motives.
Gunvolt is assigned on a mission to assassinate an adept named Lumen. He is told that Lumen has the ability to resonate with and control any adepts through her singing, and is considered dangerous. However, Gunvolt discovers that Lumen is the septimal projection of a young girl named Joule, who is a captive of Sumeragi's scientists, and can't bring himself to kill her. He instead rescues her, leading him to amicably defect from QUILL and set out on his own to protect her. He becomes a freelance agent, but still works jobs for QUILL from time to time.
Six months after defecting from QUILL, Gunvolt is offered a freelance assignment by Moniqa, his handler from QUILL, to investigate and take out several agents of the Sumeragi Group. The Sumeragi agents are all adepts as well, but powered by strange Glaives, which house their septimal essences, and are representative of each of the Seven Deadly Sins. The first agent, Merak, is a lazy, unenthusiastic adept with the power to bend space for use in his attacks. The second, Jota, is a prideful agent with the power to manipulate light. The third, Viper, is loud, brash, and violent, has control over fire, and harbors a jealous rage against Gunvolt for Joule. The fourth, Carerra, uses magnetic fists and waves to draw his enemies close before destroying them with a powerful pulsewave. The fifth, Elise, is a split personality adept: her meek, timid side and her brash, assertive side are at constant odds, but her ability to raise the dead allows for even adepts to come back from defeat. The sixth, Stratos, is a drug-addicted adept with an insatiable hunger for the very drug that keeps what little of his sanity remains in check, and has control over swarms of insects. The seventh, the bigender and carnal Zonda, attacks and wounds Zeno, one of Gunvolt's friends from QUILL, but is seemingly killed by a human warrior named Copen, who harbors a major hatred for adepts and carries a gun capable of firing bullets that can suppress their powers. Copen warns Gunvolt that they are not on the same side, and after a brief skirmish, retreats.
After defeating the Sumeragi agents, Gunvolt's apartment is invaded, and Joule is kidnapped by a resurrected Merak. Gunvolt gives chase, destroying Merak for good, and rides a space elevator to a Sumeragi orbiting platform. Along the way, he encounters the resurrected Stratos, Jota, and Viper and fights them all to the death, before finding that Elise herself had a hidden feral and wild third personality; responsible for the resurrection of the agents. This third personality is killed by Copen, and Gunvolt is forced to fight and subdue him. Gunvolt finally encounters the leadership of Sumeragi, a young psychic adept named Nova. He uses Lumen in combat against Gunvolt, before summoning Joule and three Glaives into himself to transform into a monstrous beast. Gunvolt manages to kill Nova and escape with Joule. In the initial ending, Gunvolt runs into Asimov, his father figure and the leader of QUILL, who offers Gunvolt and Joule new places in QUILL, and reveals an ulterior motive: with Sumeragi in shambles, Asimov wishes to use Lumen, along with the Sumeragi satellite, to wipe out the human race as payback for suppression of adepts. Gunvolt refuses his offer, telling Asimov that he is no better than Sumeragi was, and Asimov responds by shooting him through the heart using Copen's gun, implying that he defeated Copen to steal it from him, before turning the gun on Joule and shooting her as well, leaving them both to die.
However, Gunvolt was wearing a special pendant Joule made for him, which is made of jewels that were collected by Gunvolt, he is then rescued by Lumen at the last minute. He awakens to find Joule's body, deathly cold and still. Heartbroken, Gunvolt screams in sadness until he hears Lumen's voice, and ultimately realizes that, in an act of love in order to save his life and be with him wherever he goes, Joule forsook her physical form by fusing her mind and personality with Lumen before further fusing herself into Gunvolt's septimal energy, which amplifies Gunvolt's power to its utmost limits. After this revelation, Gunvolt chases down Asimov, running into Carrera along the way. Carrera demands vengeance for his prior defeat, but is killed once and for all by Gunvolt. Continuing onward to the elevator, Gunvolt confronts Asimov, who reveals himself to have the same electrical septimal powers as Gunvolt. With no other choice, Gunvolt fights him to the death. Following this final battle, Asimov warns Gunvolt that he will never be truly free of conflicts in his life, and dies from his wounds. Zeno and Moniqa meet the space elevator as it arrives, only to find Asimov dead and a heartbroken, wounded Gunvolt, who offers no explanation as to what happened before he simply wanders away into the morning light to be alone with Joule. 

Sometime after the ambitions of Sumeragi Group controlling the whole population of adepts with the failed "Project Muse" project and the death of their leader, Nova, the Sumeragi Group is in a massive power vacuum. [2] As the story begins, three executives are aboard the Sumeragi airship, Seraph, arguing about the future of Sumeragi, when an alarm breaks out: an intruder has been cornered. The intruder is none other than Gunvolt, who has long left QUILL behind and works as a solo agent. He is accompanied by his girlfriend, Joule, who only exists in the form of Lumen, her own septimal projection known as "The Muse", as she was physically killed in events prior and bonded herself to Gunvolt's septima. The duo make short work of the guards on the Seraph, until they are made aware by Xiao, a young adept whom Gunvolt befriended and acts as his handler on missions, that the Seraph is on a crash course with a skyscraper in the middle of the city. Gunvolt races to stop the Seraph from crashing, forced to use his septimal powers as a magnetic cushion to pull the Seraph away from the building, with Joule amplifying her abilities to their limits.
Meanwhile, Copen, a human scientist and warrior who harbors a massive hatred of adepts, arrives on the scene to investigate the events, as well as to search for his younger sister, Mytyl, who is hospitalized in the very building the Seraph was about to crash into. Gunvolt arrives with Mytyl, having rescued her from a mechanical guard, and delivers her to Copen, but Copen's attitude towards Gunvolt is still sour after their prior encounter. The two are suddenly ambushed, however, by Zonda, an adept Copen thought he had killed months before, who reveals to them a new group of adepts called the Seven, members of a cult called Eden, all led by Zonda. Zonda has stolen Sumeragi technology with aims to create much more powerful versions of the Glaives, and reveals what they call their true form: a young, pink-haired girl. In this form, Zonda uses her septima to capture Joule in a mirror and shatter her to pieces, taking the shards to amplify the powers of the Seven's septimal forms, now housed in new containers known as Grimoires. Copen manages to snatch a shard from Zonda and gives chase, and Gunvolt finds one last piece of Joule has remained with him, albeit reverted to a much younger, childlike form and severely weakened in power. Gunvolt and Copen later meet with their operators and allies: Gunvolt returns to his new apartment to meet with Xiao and Quinn, a human girl who harbors strong feelings for Gunvolt, much to Joule's dismay; Copen returns to his lab to visit Mytyl and his lab assistant and maid, Nori, to discuss their plans to eradicate the Seven. 
Gunvolt is given a new outfit by Quinn and Xiao, and the trio outline four members of the Seven to investigate and take out. The first, Gibril, is a young punk girl whose septima, "Metallon", allows her to create bladed weapons through metal, especially via hemoglobin in blood. The second, Milas, is an environmentalist who uses his "Ichor" septima to control and freely move through water to deliver deadly attacks. The third, Teseo, is an internet troll and black hat hacker who constantly harasses Gunvolt and Joule, and can use his "Hack the Planet" septima to digitize and destroy reality. The fourth, Tenjian, uses his "Permafrost" septima to attack with deadly ice blades and sub-zero temperatures. En route to Tenjian, Gunvolt runs into Copen and is forced into battle with him, but Copen breaks and retreats.
After killing the first four members of the Seven, Gunvolt is sent to a highway in the city by Xiao, where he runs into Copen again, as well as a fifth member of the Seven: Ghauri, a street dancer and slam poet who uses his "Prism Cataclysm" septima to create deadly crystallized weaponry. Copen retreats again, leaving Gunvolt to deal with Ghauri. Gunvolt makes short work of Ghauri and returns to his apartment, where Xiao reveals that he's located Eden's fortress, the Garden, in a remote nation called Tashkent. The two head off to take out Eden once and for all, while Quinn stays to watch over the base. In the fortress, Gunvolt finds and eliminates the remaining Seven members. Deep within the fortress, he encounters Zonda, who battles him in her illusory forms, but when Zonda shatters, Gunvolt deduces he was fighting an illusion. Continuing on, he finds Zonda in her young girl form, who has Mytyl captive and unconscious. Zonda explains that Joule and Mytyl are two halves of a whole; Joule was the adept part of Mytyl removed in an operation that left her mute and sickly, and cloned into her own body by Sumeragi. Using Mytyl as a proxy, Zonda rips Joule completely from Gunvolt's septima and uses her to power their own septima to unspeakable levels and transform into a deadly demonic form. Undeterred, Gunvolt manages to fight and kill Zonda for good, but at a cost: Mytyl has died thanks to Zonda, and Gunvolt curses himself for allowing an innocent girl to die. Copen arrives on the scene, and seeing Mytyl dead, swears to Gunvolt that he will kill every adept on the planet, starting with him. The two face each other, Copen instigates that every adept must die, no matter what. Gunvolt tries to sway him out of killing adepts, and the two engage in combat with one another until one of them is killed. At that moment, Mytyl revives, demanding that the two stay away from one another, and surrounded by the power of Lola and Lumen, she revives the fallen warrior, whose power is amplified to its utmost limits, and the two battle each other to absolute exhaustion. However, they decide not to kill one another, thanks to the words of a revived Mytyl, now reunited with the essence of Joule and having regained her voice once again, but losing her memories of the two. 
Mytyl is shown to be happy at last, although she occasionally has dreams about Gunvolt, revealing that Joule's memories still live on in her. She hopes to thank Gunvolt personally one day for everything he's done for her. 
